if you're being told that the only way
that you can increase your performance
in google ads is to increase your budget
you're being told a lie and a very big
one or the other reason is is that the
freelancer or the digital agency that
you're using actually doesn't know what
they're doing with google ads harsh but
it's true and before you get angry yes i
agree with you scaling google ads by
increasing your budget is a great way to
increase the total number of conversions
or sales that you're receiving however
in google ads you should not be
increasing your budget until you're
happy with your cost per conversion so
what i mean by that is that until you
are happy with how much you are paying
for each individual sale or each
individual lead you should not be
increasing your budget in google ads
it's like being told to increase the
weight of your squats 200 kilograms when
you can't even squat 150 kilograms the
only thing it's going to do is it cause
a lot more pain and damage in this video
i'm going to show you the four core
settings that you need in your google
ads campaign to make sure that your
business is getting the sales and the
conversions that it needs my name is
aaron young and i'm your 15 000 google
ads master so the first thing that you
need to make sure that you're doing is
to make sure that you're actually
focusing on your target market and this
is done through adding detailed
demographic groups and audiences for
most products you already have a key
core market that you want to market your
products to so for example we do some
marketing for a baby formula company so
straight away before we even press go in
their campaign we made sure that we had
added the detailed demographics of
parents of infants parents of toddlers
and parents of preschoolers and then on
top of that we also made sure that we
added the relevant audiences in
in-market segments of baby and
children's products baby and children's
clothing baby and toddler feeding infant
feeding supplies toddler meals and
basically anything to do with either
babies infants or children and the
reason is simple we added in the
detailed demographics and the targeted
audiences before we started our campaign
because we knew that the product which
we were selling which was baby and
infant formula was not going to be
suited for young professional couples
for parents with teenagers or for single
40 year old men so why would we waste
our precious marketing budget showing
our ads to those demographics and
audiences that were outside of our
target market also by adding in your
detailed demographics and your audiences
right at the start of your campaign
you're helping google and its algorithm
to quickly be able to target who are the
best customers to show your ads to so
not only is saving money you're actually
giving the google automated settings a
helping hand by being able to find your
core target market a lot quicker do you
have any questions about google ads that
you really really want to answer the
good news is that i'm happy to answer
any question that you have in regards to
google ads if you want me to answer your
question you need to do two things
firstly subscribe to my channel and then
leave your question in the comment
section below and as soon as i see your
question i'll answer it and you never
know i may even make a video about it
okay the second point you need to focus
on your keyword quality score even
though google ads is based on an auction
it's important to remember that the
highest bidder does not always win that
coveted number one position as on top of
your cpc google gives your bid an ad
quality score because when google
calculates your ad rank it's not only on
your cpc or the amount that you're
willing to pay it also looks at your ad
quality so it's not just about how much
you're willing to pay and when google
decides your ad rank your keyword
quality score is one of the main factors
that google looks at so when google
looks at your keyword quality score it
takes into account how your ad copy
relates to the user's search enquiry and
then on top of that it also takes into
account your landing page experience and
content and how that relates back to the
searcher's original search enquiry so to
make sure that you're always getting a
high keyword quality score you need to
make sure that your ad copy and your
landing page
match the user's search intent so in
order to be able to achieve this you
need to first need to make sure that all
of your ad groups only have one keyword
theme in each ad group and this is so
that you can make sure that all of your
ads match that one keyword theme and
then all of your ads go to a landing
page which not only matches the ad copy
but also matches that original search or
inquiry so for example if you're an
insurance company that specializes in
motorcycle insurance and also dirt bike
insurance
rather than just placing all of your
keywords and your ads into one big
campaign and ad group you need to
separate these two keyword themes so
you've got one separate ad group which
is all about targeting keywords for
motorcycle insurance and then you've got
a second ad group which is all about
targeting keywords and search terms
related to dirt bike insurance so to
illustrate this the flow that you need
to be seeing in your keywords and your
ad groups needs to be like this is
firstly you have the searcher searching
for dirt bike insurance and this
triggers an ad which is within an ad
group that only has keywords related to
dirt bike insurance then your ad copy is
speaking specifically to dirt bike
insurance which then takes the user to a
page which is all about dirt bike
insurance and then on the other side for
motorcycle insurance we would have all
of our keywords which relate to that
theme inside one motorcycle insurance ad
group which only has ads which relate to
motorcycle insurance which then once
again takes the user to a landing page
which is all about motorcycle insurance
only so you can see by using this
strategy in these settings you're
showing a very clear pathway not only
for google but for the user where their
original search term is matched not only
with your ad copy but it's also matched
with your landing page experience and
all of your required conversion actions
that you're wanting them to do when
they're on that relevant page so rather
than having campaigns and ad groups
which is really broad keyword themes for
success in google ads you need to make
sure that your ad copy and your landing
page are specifically targeted towards
the searcher's original search intent
did you know that all of the
optimizations that i'm talking about in
this video are actually listed in my
google ads optimization checklist this
is a checklist that tells you what you
need to optimize in your google ads
campaign every 72 hours every week every
month and every 90 days if you don't
have your checklist yet follow the link
in the description so that you can get
yours today let's get back into the
teaching our third point is very very
closely related to your keyword quality
score and this is where we talk about
you need to improve your click-through
ratio if you don't know you
click-through ratio is a simple metric
which calculates how many people see
your ad versus how many people actually
click on your ad and google makes it
very very clear that additional to the
relevance of your ad copy and the
relevance of your landing page your
expected click-through ratio is one of
the main attributes towards your ad rank
so very simply by increasing your
click-through ratio you're actually
putting downward pressure on your
average cost per click and the reason
for this is that with a higher
click-through ratio you're giving google
more confidence that your ad is actually
going to be clicked on think of it like
this you've got two clients one client
is prepared to pay you a thousand
dollars a month for your services and
you've got a 90 guarantee rate that
they're going to pay you every single
month versus the second client who's
willing to pay you two thousand dollars
so double the amount but you've only got
a 10 chance of them paying so it makes
clear sense you would take on the client
who's willing to pay you a thousand
dollars because you've got a 90 chance
of them actually coming through and
making payment even though the other
client may be willing to pay more you've
got a very very low chance of actually
getting paid always remember google only
gets paid when someone actually clicks
on the ad so the google ads algorithm is
much more concerned and puts a lot more
focus on the chances of your ad getting
clicked versus how much you're willing
to pay so here you can see the very
clear relationship between your
click-through ratio and your average cpc
so you can see here when our
click-through ratio decreased a little
bit it actually put upward pressure and
our cost per click increased but then
when we started focusing again on our
click-through ratio and we were able to
increase our click-through ratio you can
see that every time we increased our
click-through ratio we saw a reduction
in your cpc so it's very important to
understand the relationship between your
click-through ratio and your cost per
click and how you're always wanting to
make sure that you're increasing your
click-through ratio because as you
increase your click-through ratio you
actually see a reduction in your cost
per click and the final secret in google
ads is that you need to review your
device performance and what we mean by
that is review the performance on your
ads and how they are performing when
someone is using a mobile a computer or
a tablet optimizations by devices are
severely underutilized in google ads as
a general rule if you have a really high
priced item or you have a service which
requires a highly detailed form to be
completed chances are that your campaign
will perform a lot better if you have a
focus on computers and the reason for
this is because people like to use the
computer when they're making a large
purchase they may want to see more
photos in detail or be able to do
further research or if your service has
a really detailed form that they need to
fill out it's going to be a lot easier
on the interface of a computer as
opposed to the small screen of a mobile
while campaigns that are focusing on
simple contact forms or email buttons or
click to call buttons or low priced
ecommerce items are generally going to
have a better result if they're focusing
on small mobile devices so to review
your devices when you're in your
campaign go down to devices and then
this brings up the individual data and
how your campaign is relating when
people are interacting with your ads on
your website from a computer a mobile
phone or a tablet now in this example
they're selling a life insurance and
superannuation product so the conversion
action is a highly detailed form and for
that reason you can actually see that
they're getting far better results on
computers as opposed to mobile phones
now when we started to get this data and
we could see very clearly that not only
were we getting a lower cost per
conversion but we're getting nearly
double the conversion rate and we're
getting a much higher row i saw
conversion value on cost we started to
actually go through and increase the bid
adjustments for computers and then what
this has done is this has taken the same
budget and it's prioritized more of that
budget for computers which is ultimately
increasing our total number of
conversions so make sure that you're
maxing out your campaign performance
without having to increase your budget
make sure that you're focusing in on
your target market you're increasing
your keyword quality score you're doing
everything you can do to increase your
click-through ratio and you're also
optimizing for the best device
performance why don't you let me know
how you go with those changes in your
very own google ads campaign and before
you go remember if you've got any
burning questions that you want answered
for google ads make sure you subscribe
to the channel and leave your question
in the comment section below and i'll be
sure to come back and answer that
question for you also if you want to
learn more about optimizing your google
ads campaign and especially what is
working this year on google ads why
don't you go through and check out this
video right here see you next time